well say with this story let's go to the
United Nations and speak to Gabrielle
Alondo now and gab can you just give us
a little bit of context here why was the
UN security council meeting in the first
place sure this was a meeting that was
called by Algeria Guana and Slovenia
three non-permanent members of the
security Council and the meeting was to
deal with two urgent matters quite
frankly number one is the hunger
situation in aaza where hundreds of
thousands of Palestinians are going
hungry and the humanitarian situation
continues to deteriorate the meeting was
also focused as well about the threat to
humanitarian workers Aid workers uh in
recent days and weeks and months quite
frankly and they heard a briefing from a
top official from the office of the
coordination for humanitarian Affairs
who gave a very dark uh and uh quite
frankly depressing view of how many
Palestinians particularly children are
going hungry because not enough Aid can
get in and reach them we also heard from
the top official from save the children
non governmental organization who
briefed the council as well who also
said uh that uh the time for this to end
is now and that there are children in
Gaza right now that are dying because of
malnutrition and lack of food so that
was the bigger context of this but of
course we have heard those very powerful
words from the Palestinian Ambassador
Riyad mansur as well as the uh uh uh
Israeli Ambassador who said and I should
uh fact check there that Israel does not
Target humanitarian workers I should
actually say that that's not true there
have been
220 humanitarian Aid workers killed in
Gaza just in the last 6 months of those
179 being un staff members and Gabe
earlier Antonio gutiz spoke about the
major changes that he believes are
needed to actually protect those Aid
workers in Gaza can you just outline
exactly what he
said well first and foremost the
Secretary General reaffirmed what he's
been saying for weeks if not months now
that an immediate uh ceasefire is the
primary thing that needs to happen in
order to get Aid distributed that is
number one and he repeated that again
but beyond that he said uh that uh
Israel must change how it conducts its
war in Gaza so
humanitarians and uh innocent civilians
are not harmed injured or killed as we
have been seeing he said that the time
is now to uh uh to silence the guns uh
clearly he is uh uh uh welcomes the news
of Israel announcing that it would open
the Aras Crossing for more Aid to come
in but when I asked the Secretary
General uh his response to the fact that
Israel is saying they're only going to
open that border crossing in the north
temporarily he said he'll be watching it
closely uh and make uh more comments on
this in the coming days once he gets to
see uh if that is indeed true but uh
clearly the Secretary General uh his
overall theme of his uh remarks here
outside the security Council Chambers
was you got a sense that he felt that
enough is enough it's time for this
conflict to end and a ceasefire to be
implemented immediately okay thanks for
all of that Gabe that is Gabrielle
Alondo for us there at the United
Nations you're staying with this we're
going to go to our White House
correspondent Kimberly hit who joins us
now from there and Kimberly how has the
the White House reacted to Israel's
admission of their so-called
error well the White House has taken a
decidedly stronger and more uh adamant
tone in terms of the behavior it's
expecting from Israel in the last 2448
hours you'll recall that there was a
very very tense telephone call that took
place on Thursday between the Israeli
Prime Minister and the uh US President
Joe Biden well on the heels of that uh
what we now have is the White House
saying that they are now reviewing the
inest investigation that has been
conducted by the Israelis into the
deaths of those World Central Kitchen
Aid workers that uh were killed in just
recent days uh and what they're doing is
essentially reviewing that but what
they're also doing is rejecting the
calls of the founder of the world
Central Kitchen for a third-party
independent investigation and that is
likely to be uh disappointed to Jose
Andreas given the fact that he has uh
really called into question whether or
not Israel is capable of an independent
investigation uh because he is feeling
that there needs to be a transparent
investigation because often what has
happened in the past is when Israel
investigates itself it often finds
itself not to be culpable so uh what the
White House is saying right now is that
there are no plans for a third party
investigation given the fact that they
believe that uh they want to uh Reserve
judgment on the investigation conducted
by Israel they say that right now that
Israel has taken steps to ensure the
safety of civilians on the ground
including Aid workers and so that Aid
organizations can operate safely uh they
also say the United States that uh
Israel has allowed for trucks to get
humanitarian Aid in up to 300 trucks
daily and they are also taking initial
steps to increase humanitarian Aid so
given the fact that the White House
believes Israel is making steps in order
to increase civilian safety and increase
humanitarian Aid the White House says
for now there will be no third-party
investigation into the deaths of the
world Central Kitchen Aid workers okay
thanks so much Kimberly Kimberly hker
there for us at the White House